Synthetics guide (#7870)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/synthetics/guide/app-that-requires-login.md

---
title: Using Synthetics to monitor an application that requires a login
kind: guide
further_reading:
    - link: 'https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/introducing-synthetic-monitoring/'
      tag: 'Blog'
      text: 'Introducing Datadog Synthetics'
    - link: 'synthetics/browser_tests'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Configure a Browser Test'
---

> The key to recording an application that has a login is to record the login. There are two ways to do this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A lot of the key journeys you need to monitor on your applications are located behind a login. This means you need to ensure your Datadog Browser tests are first able to go through the login steps of your application in order to then perform validation on its post login pages. There are two ways to do this:
```

> - [Include the login in your recording](#include-the-login-in-your-recording)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Include the login steps in your recording](#include-the-login-in-your-recording)
```

> - [Record browser tests in incognito mode][1]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Leverage browser test configuration options][#leverage-browser-test-configuration-options]
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also ensure your credentials are stored securely and are obfuscated across the application [using secured global variables][].
```

> ## Include the login in your recording

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Include the login steps in your recording
```

> When you set up the new browser test, be sure to [start the test recording][2] by logging into your application. By default, the iframe pop up of the recorder uses your browser. If you start the recording already logged into your application, the iframe pop up might directly display a post-login page, which prevents you from recording your login steps without logging out first.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first method is to record the steps that are needed to perform the login at the beginning of your browser tests: input your username, input your password, hit log in. You can then go on and [start recording subsequent steps][1].
At test execution, the browser test systematically executes the first login steps before going through the rest of the journey.
```

{{< img src="synthetics/guide/app_that_requires_login/login_test.mp4" video="true" alt="Demo of recording a login">}}

> **Note:** Use [the subtest feature][3] to group your login steps into a single subtest that you can then reuse across any other browser tests that require a login.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the iframe/pop up of the recorder uses your browser. If you start the recording already logged into your application, the iframe/pop up might directly display a post-login page, which prevents you from recording your login steps without logging out first.
```

### SSO login

> If your website uses SSO for login, input your application's URL as the starting URL of your Browser test. The test performs the required redirections as part of the first default "Navigate to URL" step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your website uses SSO for login, input your application's URL as the starting URL of your browser test. The test performs the required redirections as part of the first default "Navigate to URL" step.
```

> 

Reviewer: Can we add a screenshot of where to set the start URL in a browser test?

> Some SSO providers might detect our Browser tests as bots and prevent them from logging in, for example, by adding a re-Captcha. If that is your case, consider reaching out to your SSO provider to see if it is possible to turn off bot detection for a specific set of credentials for testing purposes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some SSO providers might detect our browser tests as bots and prevent them from logging in, for example, by adding a re-Captcha. If that is your case, consider reaching out to your SSO provider to see if it is possible to turn off bot detection for a specific set of credentials for testing purposes.
```

An alternative would be to use a non-SSO approach and leverage a regular username and password combination to go through login.

### Multi-factor authentication

Browser tests can reproduce any actions a regular user can take inside their Chrome browser. If you perform the multi-factor (or 2FA, or TFA) authentication step inside of a Chrome browser, you can record the required steps to set up browser tests. 

Some MFA providers might detect our Browser tests as bots and prevent them from logging in, for example, by adding a re-Captcha. If that is your case, consider reaching out to your MFA provider to see if it is possible to turn off bot detection for a specific set of credentials for testing purposes.

> If your MFA process involves steps outside of the browser, such as voice, text message, or opening a mobile application, it is not possible to set up a browser test. If this is your case, consider reaching out to your MFA provider to see if it is possible to turn off bot detection for a specific set of credentials for testing purposes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your MFA process involves steps performed outside of the browser, such as voice, text message, or opening a mobile application, consider reaching out to your MFA provider to ask if your MFA settings could be modified or turned off for a specific set of credentials for testing purposes.
Depending on the type of MFA leveraged by your application, [JavaScript steps][2] could help to work around that.
```

> ## Record browser tests in incognito mode

Reviewer: I moved this paragraph up - so we can fully remove that section

To record your steps without logging out of your application, use the recorder's incognito mode.

{{< img src="synthetics/guide/app_that_requires_login/incognito.mp4" video="true" alt="Demo of recording a login in incognito">}}

Opening a pop up in incognito mode allows you to start your test's recording from the start URL set in your test configuration with a session completely isolated from your own browser's main session and user data. The freshly opened incognito pop up ignores all your previous browser history: cookies, local data, etc. You are automatically logged out from your account and can start recording your login steps as if you were visiting your website for the first time.

> 

Reviewer: Here we should add back the section on browser test configuration options

```suggestion
## Leverage browser test configuration options

Another way to have your browser tests log into your application is to leverage one or several of the available browser test configurations. 
You can indeed decide to apply:
* Specific headers,
* Cookies, 
* Basic auth credentials

These are set at every test execution and consequently allow you to start the recording of your steps directly post login. 
```

Can we add a screenshot to https://share.getcloudapp.com/DOuQBrPy as well?

## Account security

> ### Using global variables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Secure your authentication data
```

Store your credentials as [global variables][4] (for example, one global variable for username, another one for password) and  set these variables as secure to obfuscate their values from anyone else who has access to your instance of Datadog:

> 

Reviewer: Missing screenshot: https://a.cl.ly/X6uOly4k

Once you create the secure variables, you can then import these global variables into your browser tests and leverage them for your login steps: 

> 

Reviewer: Missing screenshot: https://a.cl.ly/geuWAeNm

**Note:** Although Datadog global variables are securely stored and encrypted, we strongly recommend using an account dedicated to testing with dummy credentials as a general testing best practice.

## Further Reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

> [1]: /#record-browser-tests-in-incognito-mode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[1]: /synthetics/browser_tests/actions/
```

> [2]: /synthetics/browser_tests/actions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[2]: /synthetics/browser_tests/actions/#subtests
```

> [3]: /synthetics/browser_tests/advanced_options/#subtests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[3]: /synthetics/browser_tests/actions/#test-your-ui-with-custom-javascript
```

Some MFA providers might detect our Browser tests as bots and prevent them from logging in, for example, by adding a re-Captcha. If that is your case, consider reaching out to your MFA provider to see if it is possible to turn off bot detection for a specific set of credentials for testing purposes.

If your MFA process involves steps performed outside of the browser, such as voice, text message, or opening a mobile application, consider reaching out to your MFA provider to ask if your MFA settings could be modified or if MFA could be turned off for a specific set of credentials for testing purposes.
Depending on the type of MFA leveraged by your application, [JavaScript steps][3] could help to work around that.

## Account security

### Secure your authentication data

Store your credentials as [global variables][4] (for example, one global variable for username, another one for password) and  set these variables as secure to obfuscate their values from anyone else who has access to your instance of Datadog:

> Once you create the secure variables, you can then import these global variables into your browser tests and leverage them for your login steps: 

Reviewer: Can we add a link to /synthetics/browser_tests/actions#a-global-variable instead of the screenshot? To make sure they know which other doc page to look if they need more info on that?

---
title: Using Synthetics to monitor an application that requires a login
kind: guide
further_reading:
    - link: 'https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/introducing-synthetic-monitoring/'
      tag: 'Blog'
      text: 'Introducing Datadog Synthetics'
    - link: 'synthetics/browser_tests'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Configure a Browser Test'
---

> Many of your application journeys you need to monitor might be located behind a login. This means you need to ensure your Datadog Browser tests are first able to go through the login steps of your application to perform validation on post login pages. There are two ways to do this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You might need to monitor something that is located behind a login. There are two ways to ensure that your Datadog Browser tests can go through the login steps of your application to perform validation on post login pages:
```

To record your steps without logging out of your application, use the recorder's incognito mode.

{{< img src="synthetics/guide/app_that_requires_login/incognito.mp4" video="true" alt="Demo of recording a login in incognito">}}

Opening a pop up in incognito mode allows you to start your test's recording from the start URL set in your test configuration with a session completely isolated from your own browser's main session and user data. The freshly opened incognito pop up ignores all your previous browser history: cookies, local data, etc. You are automatically logged out from your account and can start recording your login steps as if you were visiting your website for the first time.

**Note:** Use [the subtest feature][2] to group your login steps into a single subtest that you can then reuse across any other browser tests that require a login.

### SSO login

If your website uses SSO for login, input your application's URL as the starting URL of your browser test. The test performs the required redirections as part of the first default "Navigate to URL" step.

> Some SSO providers might detect our browser tests as bots and prevent them from logging in, for example, by adding a re-Captcha. If that is your case, consider reaching out to your SSO provider to see if it is possible to turn off bot detection for a specific set of credentials for testing purposes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some SSO providers might detect Datadog's browser tests as bots and prevent them from logging in, for example, by adding a reCAPTCHA. If that is your case, consider reaching out to your SSO provider to see if it is possible to turn off bot detection for a specific set of credentials for testing purposes.
```

An alternative would be to use a non-SSO approach and leverage a regular username and password combination to go through login.

### Multi-factor authentication

Browser tests can reproduce any actions a regular user can take inside their Chrome browser. If you perform the multi-factor (or 2FA, or TFA) authentication step inside of a Chrome browser, you can record the required steps to set up browser tests. 

> Some MFA providers might detect our Browser tests as bots and prevent them from logging in, for example, by adding a re-Captcha. If that is your case, consider reaching out to your MFA provider to see if it is possible to turn off bot detection for a specific set of credentials for testing purposes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some MFA providers might detect Datadog's browser tests as bots and prevent them from logging in, for example, by adding a reCAPTCHA. If that is your case, consider reaching out to your MFA provider to see if it is possible to turn off bot detection for a specific set of credentials for testing purposes.
```

If your MFA process involves steps performed outside of the browser, such as voice, text message, or opening a mobile application, consider reaching out to your MFA provider to ask if your MFA settings could be modified or if MFA could be turned off for a specific set of credentials for testing purposes.
Depending on the type of MFA leveraged by your application, [JavaScript steps][3] could help to work around that.

## Account security

### Secure your authentication data

Store your credentials as [global variables][4] (for example, one global variable for username, another one for password) and  set these variables as secure to obfuscate their values from anyone else who has access to your instance of Datadog:

Once you create the secure variables, you can then [import these global variables][5] into your browser tests and leverage them for your login steps: 

> **Note:** Although Datadog global variables are securely stored and encrypted, we strongly recommend using an account dedicated to testing with dummy credentials as a general testing best practice.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note:** Although Datadog global variables are securely stored and encrypted, it is strongly recommended that you use an account dedicated to testing with dummy credentials as a general testing best practice.
```
